# Aspera API use examples

This public repository provides code examples to transfer files using some of the IBM Aspera APIs for various IBM Aspera products using some languages.

[General access to all IBM Aspera APIs here](https://developer.ibm.com/apis/catalog/?search=aspera) or [here](https://developer.ibm.com/?q=aspera&dwcontenttype[0]=APIs)

See [Aspera transfer SDK on IBM site](https://developer.ibm.com/apis/catalog?search=%22aspera%20transfer%20sdk%22)

Code examples are provided as part of the SDK itself.

[Video about Transfer SDK](https://higherlogicstream.s3.amazonaws.com/IMWUC/d5b91301-6aa1-5741-e083-2a9121d9d8a7_file.mp4)

## Overview

This repository is structured like this:

- `web` : this folder contains an example that shows the use of both the **Aspera Connect SDK** and **Aspera HTTP Gateway SDK**
- other folders show samples in various languages using the **Aspera Transfer SDK** and **Aspera Applications APIs**

In order to run the samples, the address of servers as well as credentials are needed.
Also, in order to not duplicate the information, the configuration information is centralized in the file `config.yaml`.
Sample programs will use the information from this YAML file.

`Makefile`s are made for Unix-like systems, Windows users: well...

This repo was tested on macOS ARM.

## Quick start

1. Create the configuration file `config.yaml` and fill with valid server addresses and credentials, refer to [Configuration File](#config)

1. Setup global environment in main folder:

```bash
make
```

This downloads the SDKs and creates the files: `config.mak` and `config.env` which contains information about location of SDK files.

## No internet access

If you don't have internet access on the system, download the Transfer SDK with a system with internet from:

<https://ibm.biz/aspera_transfer_sdk>

and place the file here: `<main folder>/sdk/trsdk/transfer_sdk.zip`

## Testing individual programs

Scripts use environment variables present in `config.env`.
Once the file is generated by executing `make` in the top level folder, you can set the env vars like this in your shell:

```bash
. ../config.env
```

For example to execute an individual script:

```bash
cd python
. ../config.env
truncate --size=1m datafile
python src/cos.py datafile
```

## <a id="config"></a>Configuration file

A template configuration file is provided: [`config.tmpl`](config.tmpl).

Copy the file `config.tmpl` into `config.yaml` and fill with your own server addresses, credentials and parameters.

```bash
cp config.tmpl config.yaml
vi config.yaml
```

Set the parameter `system_type` to the architecture used:

- `windows-x86_64`
- `osx-x86_64`
- `linux-x86_64`
- `linux-ppc64le`
- `linux-s390`
- `aix-ppc64`

> **Note:** for macOS ARM, use `osx-x86_64`

The parameter `sdk` selects which API will be used to start transfer (current, or legacy).
Refer to section: [SDK Selection](#sdk), use `transfer` if you don't know.

Example (with random credentials):

```yaml
---
  misc:
    system_type: osx-x86_64
    client_sdk: transfer_sdk
    trsdk_url: grpc://127.0.0.1:55002
  httpgw:
    url: https://1.2.3.4/aspera/http-gwy
  server:
    user: aspera
    pass: demoaspera
    url: ssh://demo.asperasoft.com:33001
  server_paths:
    file_download: /aspera-test-dir-small/10MB.1
    folder_upload: /Upload
  node:
    url: https://node.example.com:9092
    user: node_user
    pass: _the_password_here_
  faspex:
    url: https://faspex.example.com/aspera/faspex
    user: faxpex_user
    pass: _the_password_here_
  cos:
    endpoint: https://s3.eu-de.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud
    bucket: mybucket
    key: _the_key_here_
    crn: 'crn:v1:bluemix:public:cloud-object-storage:global:_the_crn_::'
    auth: https://iam.cloud.ibm.com/identity/token
  coscreds:
    bucket: mybucket
    service_credential_file: ./service_creds.json
    region: eu-de
  aoc:
    org: acme
    user_email: john@example.com
    private_key_path: /path/to/my_aoc_key
    client_id: aspera.global-cli-client
    client_secret: frpmsRsG4mjZ0PlxCgdJlvONqBg4Vlpz_IX7gXmBMAfsgMLy2FO6CXLodKfKAuhqnCqSptLbe_wdmnm9JRuEPO-PpFqpq_Kb
    workspace: Default
    shared_inbox: TheSharedInbox
```

## HSTS Node API credentials

Refer to the [HSTS documentation](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ahts/4.4?topic=linux-set-up-hsts-node-api) to create a user and get the credentials.

Typically, a node api user is created like this:

```bash
/opt/aspera/bin/asnodeadmin -a -u my_node_username -p my_node_password -x my_transfer_user
```

> **Note:** Access key credentials (id and secret) can also be used for the node api user.

## Aspera on Cloud

For Aspera on Cloud, several items are required:

- `org` : The AoC Organization, i.e. the name before `.ibmaspera.com` in the URL
- `user_email` : The user's IBMid
- `private_key_path` : The path to the PEM file containing the user's private key. The user configured the associated public key in his AoC User's profile.
- `client_id` : (see below) The client app identifier
- `client_secret` : (see below) The client app secret

`client_id` and `client_secret` can be:

- either a specific application credential created in the admin interface of AoC (Integrations)
- or one of the two global client id : the one of aspera connect/drive or the one of the legacy `aspera` CLI :
  - `aspera.global-cli-client`
  - `frpmsRsG4mjZ0PlxCgdJlvONqBg4Vlpz_IX7gXmBMAfsgMLy2FO6CXLodKfKAuhqnCqSptLbe_wdmnm9JRuEPO-PpFqpq_Kb`

For example to extract the ones of Aspera Connect (Drive): `strings asperaconnect|grep -B1 '^aspera\.drive$'`

## COS service credentials

To test transfers to COS, you will need:

- bucket name
- storage endpoint
- api key
- crn
- auth endpoint

This is the default in the example.

Or it is also possible to use:

- bucket name
- region
- service credentials: create the file `private/service_creds.json`, follow: [get service credentials](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/aspera-cli#using-service-credential-file)

Uncomment lines in `cos.py` to use service credential file instead of bare API key.

